I'm Warner Yuen and welcome
to this afternoon's session
on HPC software optimization.
So once again a lot of people are
always wondering Apple and high
performance computing and in reality
what they think about is this.
But the reality is there are a lot of
great tools for building high performance
computers with Apple hardware.
And today in this session we'll be
talking about some of these things,
specifically what's new at Apple for
high performance computing.
And also some of the things for
preparation of your Apple hardware
for high performance computing.
And a great introduction on
how to write parallel code.
So we don't have time to show you
all of the cool new Apple tools,
but I wanted to give a plug for the new
Chud performance optimization tools.
Specifically tomorrow there's a
great session called Got Shark that
talks about performance profiling.
High performance compilers.
So this is what has really
allowed us to play in the high
performance computing world.
Specifically new this week was
the 64 bit compiling ability
with GCC in your Tiger previews.
In today's session what you'll really,
what we'll get into is performance
benefits using Mac OS X's Accelerate
framework for high performance computing.
And we'll have a presenter
talking about streamlining the
OS services for performance.
And another person will be coming
up to talk about what options are
available for building high performance
computers with Apple hardware.
And then we'll have our introductions
on creating parallel code with
both MPI and also a next generation
parallel computing developer framework.
So who's talking today?
We have some really great speakers.
We have Steve Peters from Apple's
Vector Numerics Group coming
up to talk about Mac OS X.
We'll have Josh Durham from
Virginia Tech that will come up
and talk about use of Mac OS X for
high performance computing.
And Dean Dauger from Dauger
Research will come up to talk
about writing parallel MPI code.
And finally,
we have Steve Forde from GridIron
Software to talk about next generation
parallel development framework.
So with that, I'm just going to go
to our first speaker,
Steve Peters.
I'm going to tell you about the
mathematical facilities in Mac OS X,
sort of base of much of scientific
high performance computing
that's available for Mac OS X.
The agenda today is survey the
APIs that we ship with Mac OS X,
tell you about new Tiger APIs,
a little bit of comparative
performance to let you know that we're,
I think, leading the field in sort
of this price space anyway,
and then reinforce the mantra that
first check out our frameworks
when you're interested in getting
performance out of the machines on math.
So we start out with chips
that are IEEE 754R compliant.
Like much of the industry,
this is what gives us
our substrate in math.
Then layer on top of that LibM,
a C99 compliant library full of the
elementary transcendental functions
that everyone knows and loves,
sine, cosine, square roots, and so forth.
We present these in single, double,
and long double precisions,
complex and in the real domain.
For linear algebra,
a place where many vendors add value,
and so do we,
we take the basic linear algebra
subroutines as shipped in the
Atlas open source package,
do some additional tuning,
and ship that as part of
our Accelerate framework.
So if you're looking for any of the BLAs,
look first to the Accelerate framework
where they've been closely matched to
the hardware on each of our platforms.
And those come in all
the familiar flavors.
And layered on top of that
is the gold standard of dense
numerical linear algebra solvers,
LAPAC.
And again, in all the familiar flavors.
When we begin to talk about performance,
we're looking to the G5 as our flagship.
It's really gotten us into a really
interesting place in the HPC space.
And in my opinion, for scientific work,
it's the dual floating point
cores that have taken us there.
So for every 970 CPU,
you get two floating point cores
capable of doing double and
single precision IEEE arithmetic.
The CPU can dispatch to
both of those floating point
instruction units on every cycle.
It can start a new
operation on every cycle.
All the basic arithmetic operations are
present as well as hardware square roots.
That's new to PowerPC as we've
seen it anyway and good for us.
The G5 also offers a class of
instructions called fused multiply add.
These are three operand
instructions basically.
It multiplies the first two together,
adds the third,
and does that as one machine instruction
Saving a rounding and adding,
finishing the job in smaller
number of cycles than back to
back multiply followed by add.
So fuse multiply add
fuses those together.
Why do we make a fuss about this?
There are some people I've heard who say,
"What's the big deal about
fuse multiply add?" Well,
it's fundamental to linear algebra.
It's the dot product,
the essential piece of the dot product.
And that is fundamental
to matrix multiplication.
It's a big part of the
fast Fourier transform.
The butterflies are
essentially fuse multiply adds,
multiply adds which we can fuse.
And if you're doing function evaluation,
say by Horner's rule,
you'll arrange polynomials in a way that
can take advantage of fuse multiply adds.
So a FUSE multiply ad
counts for two flops,
a multiply and an add.
So we're credited with four
floating point ops per cycle.
On a modern G5, dual G5,
that gives us eight flops across
both processors per cycle and we
get 2.5 gigacycles per second.
So we peak out at 20 theoretical double
precision floating point gigaflops,
20 gigaflops on the new dual
G5 2.5 gigahertz Power Mac.
So how do you take advantage
of this coming to the platform?
Well, if you've already got compiled
binaries for Mac OS X,
bring them to the G5, our flagship.
They'll immediately see some advantage
from the ability of the CPU to schedule
to both of those floating point cores.
Recompile and you get even better
performance because now the compiler
knows there are two floating point
units out there and can rearrange the
order of operations in your code to take
advantage of both and make some efficient
use of the dual floating point cores.
And if you have an opportunity
to think about your algorithms,
you may be able to cast them in ways that
can squeeze out a bit more performance.
This kind of detail we've
paid to our libraries,
LibM, VForce,
which I'll talk about in a moment,
the BLAS, LAPAC, and our digital signal
processing libraries,
VDSP.
In the area of single
precision floating point,
we have a very formidable capability
on both the G4 and the G5,
the Altevec SIMD processor.
It's a four way parallel
single precision engine.
Again,
all the basic arithmetic operations
and a vector fused multiply add.
We top out here at 40 gigaflops
single precision on the new PowerMax.
And there are some codes
that can get fairly close to
using most or all of those.
Convolutions are very,
very effective on that box.
How do you get to high
performance on the AlteVec unit?
You've got to work a little bit harder.
You're really going to have to think
your algorithms through and cast
them in terms of parallel operations.
We have some advice on the
web about how to do that.
But first of all,
it's probably wise to profile.
And here's another plug
for the Chud folks.
They have wonderful profiling tools that
will focus you on that 10% of the code
where you're spending 90% of your time.
Look there first.
Auto vectorization is an
option and even a better option
announced this week that GCC 3.5,
available later in the year,
will have auto vectorization features.
That's a good way to get
into the AlteVec game.
and finally the level of detail
that gets really good Altevec
performance and single precision
we've already paid in V-Force,
the BLAS, VDSP and V-Image.
How do you use these things?
We try to make it straightforward.
Try to hide at least a bit the nature
of the platform from your code.
You call the API,
we'll dispatch to the proper code
suited to the underlying chip.
LibM, the math library,
links in by default.
There's nothing special you need to do.
If you want the long double
facilities and the complex APIs,
we have LibMX, LibM Extended.
That's a flag on the link line for GCC.
And for our value added library,
the Accelerate framework,
you simply specify dash
framework accelerate.
It gets you on the air.
and of course we ship these
performance libraries on every copy
of Mac OS X that goes out the door.
You can always expect to find it there.
Well, what did we do that's new in Tiger?
We've added a library called VForce.
It had been called to our
attention that the C99 APIs for
the familiar elementary functions
were data starved on our machines.
We were seeing bubbles in the floating
point pipes that were going unused
cycles and we hate to see those go by.
And also the C99 and IEEE demand very
careful attention to the rounding
modes and the way exceptions are
handled and that adds quite a bit
of overhead for APIs that are only
processing just one operand at a time.
So the ideas in V-force were to pass
many operands through a single call.
For example,
if you need 768 values of the sine of X,
well there's a call called VV sine F that
lets you pass all of them in at once.
We amortize the overhead
and get back in a big,
big hurry.
And in fact that code runs about
12 times faster than a naive loop
calling the traditional sine function.
There's some caveats here.
You have to expect IEEE default rounding
mode and you won't see any exceptions.
We're expecting that you'll give
arguments that are within the
domain of the function and so forth.
Using these ideas opened up a
number of performance opportunities.
On single precision, hit Altevec.
Hit Altevec hard.
That gives us four way
parallelism to begin with.
Double precision, we've got two FPUs.
Let's make sure we
schedule those effectively.
do some software pipelining,
fill up those bubbles with
sort of independent parallel
streams of computation.
And then we take great care in choice
of algorithms to avoid branching,
which is very tricky
on pipeline machines.
Some caveats,
we're generally as accurate as the
traditional libm elementary functions,
but we're not always bitwise identical.
We handled nearly all the edge
cases according to the C99 specs.
Plus and minus zero are
the occasional exceptions.
There's documentation to tell you where.
We make no alignment requirements,
but if you really want top performance
aligned to 16 byte boundaries,
that lets our SIMD engines
collect the data most efficiently.
We're tuned for G5,
but we also run very well on G4 and G32.
Here's what's in there, the inventory,
some simple division like functions,
roots, X-mentals, logs, and powers,
trigonometrics, arc trigonometrics,
hyperbolics,
and some integer manipulation.
How do you code to these things?
Couldn't be simpler.
The blue on the top is C,
below is Fortran,
and in orange the obvious
command line compilations.
What else is new in Tiger?
We updated to Atlas 3.6,
did some additional
Mac OS X specific tune ups.
We get some LA Pack performance
gain since it relies on those
BLAs and from some compiler advances.
Little performance chart showing in
blue our matrix multiply performance
and in the cluster of orange,
green, and burnt orange,
the matrix decompositions.
LU, the symmetric decomposition,
LL transpose and the
symmetric U transpose U.
Notice that matrix multiply
tops out around 13 gigaflops
on a new dual 2.5 gigahertz G5
Power Mac and the decompositions,
let's say 11.
Here's what the Xeon gets to,
a 3.0 Xeon running MKL6,
matrix multiply topping
out well under 10,
and the decomposition's
just about getting to 8.
and finally Opteron.
This is quite old numbers,
it looks about from last summer.
They're topping out about
five and a half last summer.
Let's give them 50% since
they've upclocked by that much.
That would be perfect
scaling and that takes them,
well, not quite to eight I think
on matrix multiply.
So G5 cruising along near
13 and the Opteron eight,
maybe nine and Xeon probably closer
to 12 in the 3.6 incarnation.
All right,
finally we bring Long Double back
to the Mac platform.
It was present in Mac OS 9 and earlier,
and the complex Long Double,
and the C99 TGMath type generic math.
So you can say sign of a
complex number and the compiler
figures out what you mean in C.
Isn't that nice?
I'm going to pass by this since I am
running very close to my time and maybe
just jump to the end here where I show
on the left our elementary functions,
number of cycles to get in and
out of our library functions,
in the middle column what the
competition publishes for their x87,
[Transcript missing]
There's several documents out on the
web on our developer site that can get
you started with this kind of stuff.
We've already had the
Accelerate Framework talk.
We're in this talk.
If you haven't seen the Chud stuff,
by all means, please go see it.
[Transcript missing]
Thanks, Steve.
So today I'm going to do kind of a brief
overview of Virginia Tech System 10,
which I'm pretty sure
most of you have heard of.
It's the 1100 node
cluster at Virginia Tech.
And then we go into some detail
about some of the services in
OS X that you can turn off,
briefly go over what kind of things
we did at Virginia Tech to kind
of improve our benchmark scores,
and very briefly I'm going to just
kind of go into some of the management
tools that we use at Virginia Tech.
So Virginia Tech System 10 is
1100 dual processor XSERVs.
So that, of course, is 2200 PowerPC 970s.
Each XSERV cluster node
has four gigs of memory,
which gives us basically an
overall 4.4 terabytes of system
memory for the whole cluster.
One of the things that early on
when we were deploying this is,
well, they've got to be running Linux.
Why would they run OS X?
Or maybe they're running Darwin.
But we really are running OS X.
And it's the OS X that
was shipped with it.
We did a little bit of modifications,
which I'm going to kind of go into.
But it is OS X.
Briefly, our interconnect that we use
at Virginia Tech was InfiniBand
and we went with 24 Mellanox
96 port InfiniBand switches.
So these switches give basically
20 gigabits per second,
a full duplex per port,
and that's basically 1.92
terabits per second for the
overall bandwidth for the switch.
We got about 12 microsecond latency
and that's across the entire network,
about 8.5 microsecond latency
across just one switch.
We use a fat tree topology,
which I kind of did a really rudimentary
diagram at the bottom of the thing there
of what a kind of fat tree topology is.
And in our case it's a half bisection.
And half bisection means that at any
time if you have half the cluster
trying to talk to the other half,
you're guaranteed basically
half the bandwidth,
which in our case is basically 4.5.
So that's about 5 gigabits per second.
In addition to that we also have
a secondary gigabit network,
which comprises six Cisco switches
with 240 ports each.
And we basically use that to do
management and some file sharing
to basically kind of get the system
up and running and kind of do some
of the administrative stuff on it.
Power and cooling can never be emphasized
enough when you're looking at clusters,
especially this size.
So at Virginia Tech we're lucky to
have this really wonderful computer
facility that has basically three
megawatts of electrical power,
half of which is basically
dedicated for System 10,
the cluster.
So we have dual
redundancy with our power,
we have a UPS system,
and we actually have a diesel
generator which is pretty much
the size of a diesel locomotive.
It just sits back on a
pad and it's gigantic.
So as I said, about half that,
1.5 megawatts, is reserved for System 10.
Cooling, we have basically 2 million
BTUs of cooling capacity using
Lieber's extreme density cooling.
I'll have some pictures later
and I can kind of point it out,
but basically it's a rack mounted
system where it kind of blows
cold air from above and we also
have floor cooling as well.
So it uses standard refrigerant,
overhead chillers.
So we're looking at different kinds of
cooling and we had a regular data center.
And the typical way to do that is you
have air conditioners throughout the room
that basically bring in air from the top,
chill it, and kind of push it out
throughout the floor.
And then you basically put tiles in
the right places to get that air.
So we looked at trying to do that
and if we did that we'd have had
wind velocities of about 60 miles
per hour underneath the floor.
So imagine just pulling
off one of those tiles,
you get shot with that 60
miles per hour of wind.
So that's basically what I'm
going to say about System 10.
One of the things I'm going to overview
is some of the services in System 10.
And we're going to turn off some
of them to optimize it slightly for
more of the HPC type application.
So OSN Server by default
comes with about 40 processes,
just the regular default install.
And so why do we want
to reduce the services?
Well, one of course is we want to free up
resources like memory and CPU time.
And increases some security.
Obviously,
if you're not running things like a
web server or something like that,
you're not going to have to
worry about securing that.
And it reduces the amount of
time for the system to start up,
which kind of lowers your
mean time between failures.
So one of the things I want to
emphasize is I always use this
analogy for when you're turning
off services that it's kind of like
these guys that buy the Honda Civic.
And they basically rip out the engine.
They put a turbocharger on it,
big spoilers on it.
And they kind of soup it up.
So they kind of design
it for their own purpose.
And the problem with that is
Honda's not going to do any sort
of hardware support for you.
And so the thing to keep in
mind is if you're starting
to turn off these services,
this isn't something Apple's
going to recommend you to do.
This is kind of what we
did here at Virginia Tech.
So the first,
basically I'm going to kind of step
through the different places in
OS X where you turn off services.
And the first one is
the Etsy host config.
and there in orange are
basically some of the services
that run from ETSI Host Config.
We have things like CupsD,
which is a printing service.
We have the AutoMount,
which basically handles
mounting removable file systems
and network file systems.
And we have the Crash Reporter D,
which sort of sounds important,
but basically it's just for creating
crash logs for the GUI applications.
And we have Server Manager D,
which is basically if you
ever used with the XServe,
Server Admin or Server Monitor or
any of those tools,
this is what uses that.
So that's one thing
I'd like to point out,
is if you want to use these tools,
and they're great tools,
you want to keep this service on.
So basically this file has a list
of services and just changing the
service equal yes to service equal no,
that will disable the service
on the next time you reboot.
The next thing we do, and this is kind of
blasphemy in the OS X thing,
is we're going to turn off the GUI.
Unfortunately,
we have 1,100 GUIs running.
There's no real need to do that.
No one's ever going to
actually see these GUIs.
So the place to do that is an Etsy TTYS.
And so I have,
basically there's this very
complicated line there and
it needs to be commented out.
And commenting out that one line
pretty much is going to prevent the
Windows Server from running and the
login window thing from running.
Actually this just does the login window.
The Windows Server is in another place.
Basically in OS X there's all
sorts of different places where
these services get started.
This one is in a directory
called etsymockinit.d.
The way I disable it,
and this is just a personal preference,
as opposed to just
I could delete the file,
I could remove it.
Instead I'm just going to create
another directory and move the
script into that directory.
That way if I change my mind later
I don't have to go find it or
make sure it's the right thing.
I just can move it back.
So next thing that we turn
off is the ATS server,
which basically provides font services.
Since we disabled the GUI,
we're obviously not going to
need font service on the system.
That's another thing that gets
run out of Etsy Mocking at D.
So basically just moving
that P list into the disabled
directory is going to do that.
The next thing that we're going to hit,
the next stop on turning off the
services is basically modifying Watchdog.
Watchdog is this process that
basically monitors your system to
make sure that processes are running.
If they aren't running,
it restarts those processes.
Another thing that Watchdog does
that's really nice is that it enables
the system to reboot if it crashes.
So that's actually pretty nice in the
HPC thing because the system will come
back up and hopefully rejoin the network.
It kind of reduces your time between
failures because it's kind of almost
like a self-healing kind of thing.
So in etcwatchdog.conf,
we're going to disable two
services that we don't need.
The print service monitor,
obviously we're not going to be
printing from the cluster nodes.
And master.
Master, I didn't know what it
was when I first started.
But it sounded really important.
It's actually just the main
server for the mail server.
So we turn that off.
One more thing that's on there is HWmonD,
which is the hardware monitor.
And so basically this
thing is pulling every,
I think, five seconds is the default.
And basically it's just
keeping track of your hardware.
So it keeps track of all your fans,
your temperatures throughout the system,
and just kind of records that.
And it can also send notifications,
stuff like that.
So I thought every five
seconds is a little too much.
So we kind of bumped
that up by adding -s 60.
And that's going to make
it only run once a minute.
So that kind of reduces the
CPU overhead of this one service.
Next thing I turn off is MDNS Responder
and I have a feeling that this is not
going to be something we're going to
be able to turn off as more and more
things start to rely on Rendezvous.
So we have things like XGrid and if
you plan on using XGrid you don't
want to turn this thing off because
XGrid is going to use Rendezvous
to find other compute nodes.
And there are things like if you ever
want to use the distributed compile
option in Xcode it also uses Rendezvous.
So if you don't plan on doing
anything with Rendezvous this is
definitely something you can turn off.
It will reduce the amount of
network stuff it sends out and
a little bit of CPU overhead.
So this one basically has a script
in the system library startup
items folder and basically I just
comment out the line that starts it.
So in OS X there's lots of different
places to kind of look for services and
you kind of see there the grayed out
services that we kind of went through.
And there are some things on there
that people disagree with that either
need to stay or some things need to go.
Like I leave the time server
on there because I think that's
important for the cluster that I run.
I leave cron turned on because we
actually use cron to kind of do
things every so often on the cluster.
But some people can turn that off
and not have any issues with that.
So I'm going to talk about the
LINPACK optimizations and the kind
of things we did at Virginia Tech.
LINPACK is basically the benchmark
that's used in the top 500 list.
So we were number third
in the world in November.
And so the way this is established is we
have to run this benchmark called HPL.
So we had some,
this was about a year ago,
and this was before a lot
of the optimizations went
into the XLR8 framework.
So we had a person in
Japan named Kazushiki Goto,
and he did basically some assembly level
optimizations on major subroutines.
Basically the DGEM subroutines.
I have a website there for more
information if you want to kind
of look at his optimizations.
One of the things that we had
to do though is we had to kind
of write our own memory manager.
Because the blast routines that he
was writing did a much better job
if it was guaranteed a contiguous
physical amount of memory.
As opposed to having it kind of
get segmented or partitioned.
So with those optimizations,
we actually had about a 10% increase
over the Apple Veclib at the time.
Remember, this was using Jaguar,
so we didn't have XLR8.
We were still using Veclib.
So with the optimizations and some of the
tweaking that we did at Virginia Tech,
we actually got 10.28
teraflops per second,
which was the third fastest in the world.
And without those go-to optimizations,
we probably would have
gotten around 8.4 teraflops,
which on that list probably
would have put us around fourth.
Very quickly,
I just want to kind of go over some
of the system management stuff.
And I can talk for maybe two hours
or five hours or 12 hours on this.
It's something that
I do a lot of work with.
The tool that I love for system
management is called Ganglia.
And I know like BioTeam uses
it inside their package.
And what's really great about
Ganglia is it runs on each system.
It kind of just gets system
status and kind of broadcasts
that out on the network.
So by default it has a couple
of displays and I have a few
of their displays at the top.
Like at the top there's a
cluster load percentage.
So it's kind of really great.
You can see what's going
on with your 1100 systems.
You know, you kind of get a,
take a step back and be able to see
what's really going on in the cluster.
And what I love about that
is you can drill down.
So we have that big cluster overview,
but you can drill down and
look at like a specific node.
And what I love about it
is that it's XML data.
So you can parse that XML data.
So we at Virginia Tech made a,
basically a kind of a custom
display there that kind of shows
us a physical representation
of what our cluster's doing.
So we can see if a CPU's kind of
doing something weird or if we can
look at temperatures and loads.
Kind of get a physical view of it.
And it really helps with just
quickly discovering what's
going on with our system.
So, things I talked about of course were,
you know, overviewing our System 10,
reducing the number of services,
and what we did on the LIMPAC scores and
some of the management features we did.
So people of course are,
if you went to Dr.
Vrajanan's presentation yesterday,
you probably saw some of this,
but people keep asking us,
so what's going on with System 10?
So, you know, we dropped off the list and
it's because we swapped out our
PowerMax and we're upgrading XSERVs.
So I can say that people are
very hard at work installing
systems and we have about 850 in.
And so there's some of
the racks that we have.
And, you know,
one of the things that is really
interesting is that we have,
we're using basically a third of the
space that we do with the PowerMax.
So we only have one aisle where
we can do all the cabling.
And so it gets kind of crowded.
And there's, I don't know how many
people are in that picture,
but that's a small space
for a whole bunch of people.
And that's basically us doing
the wiring in the background.
We have to wire your Ethernet,
do the power, and run an InfiniBand.
So quite a bit of cabling going on.
So with that, I'm going to introduce
Dean Dauger from Dauger Research.
Thank you, Josh.
Yes, so let's see.
It's definitely a pleasure to be
here today and to be speaking to you.
I very much appreciate the kind people at
Apple to invite me to come out and talk
about plug and play clustering and how
you can build your cluster in minutes.
And so what I'd like to go
over first is an outline of
what I'd like to talk about.
And first of all, why parallel computing,
why parallel computing
was interesting to do,
and what we did to go about inventing
or essentially reinventing the cluster,
inventing the Mac cluster,
and an introduction to
basic message passing code.
And then a description of how you
can build your own Mac cluster,
and hopefully if the
demo gods are kind to us,
I can show you what we
can do with a Mac cluster.
Thank you.
So why parallel computing?
Really,
parallel computing is good for problems
that are too large to solve in one
sense or another on one computer.
The simple reason of simply
taking up too much time,
too much CPU time,
but also in some cases,
or in many cases I know,
it requires too much memory.
Some problems can easily
outgrow the RAM capacity that's
available on a single box.
And I know codes that run 15 billion
particles and it has to keep all
that data all in RAM and so multiply
that by however many dozens of
bytes per particle and you can see
that's quite a bit of memory space.
So the other thing that's happened in the
last decade or so is that the programming
API has become standardized on what's
known as message passing interface,
also known as MPI.
It's a specification that was
established in 1994 and by the end
of the 90s it became the dominant
software interface that's available
at supercomputing centers such as
the San Diego Supercomputing Center.
As well as NERSC and also
on many cluster systems.
And so this development
enabled the possibility of
having portable parallel code,
code that's portable between the
supercomputing centers and the
clusters in both 4G and C by using MPI.
And that's been a real
benefit to scientists and many
other users of such systems.
So to give you an idea of
some of our experience,
this is a current picture of
the UCLA physics Apple C cluster
established in 1998.
And as you can see,
we use a mixture of G5s and G4s
connected with a fast switch.
And we are running on a mix of OS X,
various versions of OS X,
as well as OS 9.
So we're able to mix and match
nodes older and newer hardware.
And then we can combine this cluster
with machines that are on people's desks,
such as my colleagues' professors
or postdocs or graduate students.
Combine them as we need to
when they're away to go home
from work or on their vacation.
Or if a colleague needs time
just before a conference,
they can go ahead and
just use the machines,
ask permission,
and involve them together.
And that's really saved
a lot of people's work.
And just a little quick note,
this is a picture just from last week,
the Dawson cluster.
It's going to be 256x dual processors.
Currently, 128 online.
It was literally physical.
It was technically just
assembled last week.
And we were able to get this picture
connected with Gigabit running 10.3.
So we'll be definitely having some
results of that later in the month.
So cluster computing with Mac OS X,
essentially we went about
reinventing the cluster computer.
And it really is a very nice
approach to cluster computing,
much more reliable than many other
systems that I'm familiar with.
It's independent of shared storage or any
kind of command line login or static data
like machine lists or static IP files.
And so that leads a lot to a great
deal of reliability because you
don't have to make sure that every
little switch is just right in
order for the cluster to work.
And so this all results in the
lowest barrier to entry for people
who are using clusters and really
saves a lot of time and money.
And really the purpose of this whole
approach is to be able to enable users
to focus on getting useful work done
so they don't have to be bogged down
with the mechanics of the cluster.
They can actually get real
research and real work done.
And that was our motivation to be able
to assemble and design the Mac cluster.
So, we're going to do a little bit of
[Transcript missing]
So let me give you an introduction
to parallel code using MPI.
Basically, it's code that coordinates
its work using messages.
The model is that there are
n tasks or virtual processors
that are running simultaneously,
and you label them from 0 to n minus 1.
These executables often use this
identification data to determine what
part of the work they're going to do
and how to coordinate work between them.
And so they pass messages between all
these virtual processors or tasks to
organize the data and organize the work.
It's really analogous to a number of
employees at a company who make phone
calls with each other or have meetings
to be able to coordinate work and
to accomplish a much larger project.
Any group of tasks can communicate,
which implies there are order
N square connections that
are supported by the MPI.
And that can support
simple sends and receives,
as well as collective calls,
such as broadcasts,
where you're sending from
one task to all the others,
or gather where you're collecting data,
say for data output,
or reduction operations,
such as computing the maximum of an
array that's spread across the cluster,
or the sum,
or other parameters like that.
And also matrix operations such as
transpose and vector operations.
And synchronization is not
required in between the tasks.
No precise synchronization is necessary,
but it's only implied by the fact
that messages need to be able to
get from one task to the other.
So to give you an idea
of what it looks like,
I'll introduce a simple example,
a simple example I know
of message passing called,
we call parallel knock.
And in this case, in this diagram,
the time axis is down.
And we have a time axis that's down.
And we have two tasks that are
communicating with each other.
At first,
task zero sends a message to task one.
And then they both print that message.
And so task zero prints
the message it just sent,
and task one prints the
message it just received.
And then a reply is sent back
from task one to task zero,
which is then printed by both tasks.
And so task zero prints the
message it just received,
the reply, and task one prints
the reply it just sent.
So to give you an idea of
what the code looks like,
[Transcript missing]
Now the next example I'd like
to go over is Pascal's triangle.
This is an example that
illustrates local propagation.
Propagation,
what I mean is that every element
eventually interacts with every
other element in the problem.
But the interactions are all local
because any one element is simply
the sum of the two neighboring
elements in the preceding line.
And so eventually they all
interact with each other,
but every interaction itself is local.
And this is similar to a variety of
physical problems such as fluid modeling
where you're looking at fluid flow
through like inside a plasma or inside
a blood vessel or things like that.
And you can use partial, one tool,
you can use partial differential
equations for that where you're
having neighboring elements
interact with each other.
As well as elastic deformation which
occurs when you're trying to simulate say
using finite element modeling to be able
to understand how the earth's crust is
going to deform when say a fault slips.
Or a Gaussian blur where you're
talking about one point spreading this
information to all its neighboring ones
and so forth using localized convolution.
Or molecular dynamics where you have
molecules interacting with each other
in a local manner or certain parts
of particle based plasma models.
Are all,
those kinds of codes are all good
examples of local propagation.
So in parallel Pascal's triangle,
the way that you recognize
where the message passing is,
is the first layout that you
can think of this as the time
axis being down from one to one,
one, and so forth.
And the thing to recognize is to
understand where the communication
is happening in the problem in
order to perform the computation.
And so what I've drawn here is all
the arrows indicating all the places
where there's a certain amount of
information being propagated or data
being propagated from element to element.
And so the thing to recognize is that
when you partition the problem up,
let's say up into three
different sections,
and you can recognize that a
certain amount of information or
a certain amount of data being
propagated through the partitions in
between each section of the problem.
And so you can handle all the
internal communication as normal
for any single processor code,
but then the MPI calls correspond
to the arrows that cross the
red boundaries that are here.
But by choosing this method,
this arrangement for the partitioning,
the computation becomes proportional
to the volume of the problem
and the communication becomes
proportional to the surface area.
So you can think of it sort of physically
that you'll probably end up with a
good communication to computation
ratio with this kind of organization.
So by splitting it up into
the three different sections,
imagine you have three
different tasks running,
these are the messages
being sent and received.
So that for every odd and even line,
you're sending messages either
to the left or to the right,
to the left or to the right
for every alternate line.
And so for the computation,
all the computation needs to
know is simply that there's
an array to form and take,
to compute the value of
an element in one line,
you simply sum the previous two.
But what the message passing does,
it fills in the gaps as it needs to,
to be able to propagate the
information in between each section.
And so you can see, say,
the left edge of the middle
task is a duplicate of the
right edge of the left task.
And so the fact that there's a duplicate,
this is also known as guard cells,
where you're able to set up these
kinds of guard cells to allow the
computation to proceed as if it was
the only process you're running,
but then the MPI simply fills
in the guard cells at the
moment where it's needed.
And so this is actually a fairly
prototypical example of a lot of
local propagation type problems.
So to show you a code example,
again this is available
in Fortran as we'll see.
In this case,
this if statement is alternating between
odd and even lines of the problem.
And for example, we start at the top part
of the if statement.
We have an MPI receive that's
performed on the right edge of the
array from the right processor.
And what I mean is that
it's an immediate receive,
it immediately returns,
also known as an asynchronous receive.
So you're allowed to continue to
execute while the receive is happening.
And then an MPI send is performed
on the left part of the array,
array zero, to the left processor.
And then an MPI wedge is performed to
be able to balance out the I receive and
complete the I receive that came before.
So in this case,
since everybody is sending
something to the left,
that means that you're receiving
something from the right.
And so that's what that corresponds to.
Likewise,
in the lower half of the statement,
we're doing an I receive from the
left and then a send to the right.
And then a wait to complete the receive.
And so we're all sending
to the right instead.
And so the result of
this code is like this.
If we divide it up into
three different tasks,
and the way that this is drawn,
is that all the odd values is
drawn with an asterisk and all
the even values has a space.
And so we can see that
they're essentially task
one has a seed at the top,
which then propagates through and
propagates out to the boundaries
across the partitions into the
sections on task zero and task two.
And so by forming, by arranging this way,
we can see that we actually
have maintained our guard cells.
If you look carefully,
the left edge of task one is identical
to the right edge of task zero.
And so those guard cells will
be maintained by the MPI.
So we see that's successful there.
And the other thing that
we see out of this way,
this forms a shape also known
as the Sierpinski gasket
in the Pascal's triangle.
So we're able to perform this
problem using MPI in this way.
So that's just one of many possible
message passing patterns that are
available that are supported using MPI.
And for example,
that's the example of the
nearest neighbor on the left.
And of course, the arrows are reversible,
so you can do left, right, left, right.
And then the upper left is another
common message passing pattern,
also known as master/slave.
This is something that
is relatively simple.
And so in this case,
it shows a broadcast from
one task to all the others.
Or you can reverse this and, of course,
do a gather.
But also,
the all-to-all communications pattern,
where every node is
communicating to every other one,
that's very important for
data transposes of matrices.
And that's important, say,
for performing a very
large 1D FFT in parallel.
You have to go through
data transposes and,
consequently,
the message passing patterns.
You have a lot of
all-to-all communications.
Or you could have other
message passing patterns,
like a tree,
where one is sending to two others,
and they, in turn, send to two others.
Or in a regular pattern
for a more regular problem,
or any combination of the above,
or any multidimensional
versions of any of these.
So these are all things that are
possible with MPI and are important
for a variety of interesting problems.
So to give an idea of some of
those interesting problems,
these are the applications that
have been run on MAC clusters
that I'm familiar with.
And for example,
on the upper left is a picture
of the electric Tokamak device.
So Tokamak is a plasma device
that attempts to hold a plasma in
confinement in a ring shape pattern,
or torus shape pattern.
And one of the things about many kinds
of Tokamaks is that the plasma in it
is very hot and very hard to handle.
And so it typically leaks
out to the walls around it.
And so they wanted to
try to confine it better.
But in order to be able to see inside it,
if you stick a probe in it,
it's so hot it could just vaporize.
So it would be very hard to be able
to try to really probe in there.
So that's why computational
simulation is very interesting to do.
And so this is an example.
This is a very interesting example.
A QuickTime movie made from a gyrokinetic
simulation of a Tokamak plasma in the
cross-section showing the electric
potential and seeing how it evolves
from a linear state to a saturated state.
and then on the right is the
planetarium rendering that was
performed by a customer over at
Northern Kentucky University.
This was submitted to the first ever full
dome festival and actually won an award.
This was performed on a 50
node Mac cluster rendering
out a three dimensional
simulation inside a planetarium.
On the lower left is an
example that comes from Dr.
Hulzenbeck over at UCSD in biology
where he and his colleagues
wrote a program called P-Mr.
Bayes that computes the posterior
probabilities of phylogenetic trees.
So I'll say that five times fast.
And what it studies is
it looks at the DNA,
the similarities in DNA between various
species and tries to determine the
evolutionary path in between them.
And this was a code that he
consulted with me on to be able to do
parallelization as well as vectorization.
With vectorization we were able
to get a three time speed up and
of course with parallelization we
were able to boost that even more.
And the number of
processors that involved.
On the lower right is a
quantum PIC simulation,
some diagrams from a
quantum PIC simulation.
In this case this is showing a two
dimensional quantum wave function
in a simple harmonic oscillator
and showing the circulation of the
electron around the wave function.
This was actually work that was
based on my doctoral dissertation
which I did entirely on Mac clusters.
And what it involves is an
approximation of path integrals that
to be able to choose sample just
all the possible classical paths.
And use plasma code to be able to push
those paths forward and determine the
evolution of a quantum wave function.
So the Mac cluster recipe.
Basically this is all the
description that you need to be
able to assemble a Mac cluster.
The ingredients simply take a bunch
of Power Macs or extra G4s or G5s,
upgrade the memory as you need to
and get a fast Ethernet switch or
faster if you have more money and
get a bunch of Ethernet cables.
Then the directions are connect the
cables from the Macs to the switch
and download Pooch which you can
get from our website and install
Pooch and it only takes seconds per
node to be able to install Pooch.
And then use the Altifact Fractal
demo to be able to test the cluster.
And so what I'd like to do is to be able
to see if I can give you a demonstration.
So if we could switch to demo two.
Yes, thanks.
And let's see.
Okay, so let me uninstall that.
Okay, good.
So let me give you sort of a
prototypical idea of a numerically
intensive code that we have here.
This is known as the
AltaVec Fractal Demo.
Right now it's not using the vector
processor that's in this G5 here.
And it adds up,
it uses a Z to the Z fourth computation,
something I thought was a little
bit more numerically challenging.
And also it counts up how many
floating point operations it does
in times itself to really determine
how many megaflops it achieves.
And it gets about 1,100
megaflops in this case.
But if I use the vector processor,
I can go ahead and use that.
And it goes quite a bit faster.
It gets about five, six gigaflops or so,
which is pretty nice.
and this also can make use
of a dual processor machine.
That gives me another factor of two,
but what if I want to get
beyond a factor of two?
Well,
that's where parallel computing comes in.
That's where Pooch comes in.
This is how long it
takes to install Pooch.
Just double click on the installer.
and there we are.
And POOCH is an acronym,
Parallel Operation and
Control Heuristic Application.
And let's see, I just need to be able
to log in to the cluster.
And to be able to start up a new job,
I go ahead and click
New Job from the File menu.
It opens up a new job window.
And this has two panes in the job window.
It holds a list of files on the left
and executable that will be copied
to the machines listed on the right.
and execute as a parallel
computing job there.
So if I click on select app,
I can go ahead and use the file
dialogue to be able to navigate
through the file manager.
But I really don't
prefer doing it that way.
I prefer using drag and drop.
So how many of the parallel
computers can you think of you
can launch using drag and drop?
There really aren't too many.
By default, it selects the node I'm on,
which is NobHill Demo 2.
And if I click on Select Nodes,
this opens up a new network scan window.
And this uses both Rendezvous and
SLP simultaneously to determine the
names and IP addresses of other machines
on the local area network that's here.
and so I can see that it drew,
it used this information,
it uses the IP addresses
to be able to contact the
pooches on the other machines,
in this case the XSRVs that are here.
And involve those and then determine
whether or not they're busy or okay.
Busy means that they're running a
parallel job with show up in red
letters or how much RAM they have.
And it also queries other
information such as,
gee, you know,
what's the clock speed of them
or what operating system or
how much load does it have,
how much disk space.
You know, when was the last time
someone touched the mouse or,
and it uses this information to be
able to form a rating of the cluster.
And so it helps you choose the
nodes that are more suitable
for running in the cluster.
And it actually can give
you a recommendation.
You can go ahead and choose the
add best function if you want.
Or you can go ahead and drag and drop or
double click on the nodes that are there.
So if I click on the
options of the job window,
this opens up the options drawer.
And you can, say,
place the executable in a particular
subdirector on each one of the machines,
maybe perhaps delay the launch
until some later time of day,
so like after a colleague
leaves home to go from work.
And you can also pretend
that you're on a very,
very large system by
launching as many tasks.
By default, it launches as many tasks
as there are processors.
So you can also really benchmark
or stress test your code.
We support three different MPIs,
as I described earlier.
And if you want to get
through a firewall,
you can use a particular port number
or queue the job for later execution.
So to be able to launch the job,
I go ahead and click on Launch Job.
And this copy is executable to the
other machines and then passes control
to the parallel computing code,
which then divides up into the various
different sections and then collects
results back here for display.
And we get something like
44 gigaflops in this case.
Thank you.
Let's see,
I just want to check something.
OK, so from there,
and just to show you that
this isn't just for fractals,
is that this is an example of
a physics code that we have.
And let me go ahead and actually, oh,
that's fine.
I'll just involve the
same nodes that are here.
And we can go ahead and-- so what's
happening here is that this is
actually a plasma physics code.
It's running at least a few
million particle simulation.
And it's being performed on the nine
processors that are available here.
And if I go ahead and run this job,
we can see that the electrostatic
potential is going to show that there's a
plasma stability that grows out of that.
And we can see that in the lower right,
there is the Mac MPI monitor window,
which is very useful for diagnosing
and debugging parallel codes in MPI.
And so in the top part of the window,
it shows the messages.
White means it's not sending any data.
Red means it's receiving data.
Green means it's sending.
Yellow means it's swapping.
And so a typical thing that happens when
you're learning how to write a parallel
computing code is that a lockup happens.
And so it freezes in the
light pattern of the hang.
But also, down below,
there's a histogram of the
messages being sent and received
as a function of message size.
So this encourages you to send
fewer large messages as opposed
to many smaller messages.
It also shows you dials of how much
time it's been communicating and how
many megabytes per second are being sent
or received in between these machines.
So this is a utility that myself and
many colleagues and many venerable
institutions have used to be able
to diagnose and debug their codes.
And to give you another
example of a code,
also a physics code,
this is an example of a code that
performs a Fresnel diffraction problem
where you have a point source of light
producing spherical waves and projecting
a diffraction image on the screen.
And so from there, we can actually,
this actually has a feature where
you're able to automatically launch
itself in parallel on a cluster.
And so this is the way that I would hope
that applications become so easy to use
that you can simply drag and you can just
simply use a menu click to be able to
have it launch itself onto a cluster and
make use of the resources that are there.
And you can see again the
Mac monitor window showing
the messages being received,
mostly very large messages.
Let me make the problem,
I was going so fast,
I got to make the problem size bigger.
And then it's also showing the colors of
different parts of the problem that are
being assigned to the various processors.
And so just one more feature,
one other thing I want to show you,
something that was just announced
this week was what we call Pooch Pro.
It has a new user menu where you
can actually assign a certain
amount of quota for each user.
And so it computes how much
compute time is being used.
And then this is a cluster,
the only cluster or server computer
I know of that has rollover minutes.
So you can rollover your
compute time from week to week,
let's say.
And also, now this is something you would
only see as an administrator.
You can actually administrate
the users that are there.
And A means that it's administrate,
you have administrative capabilities.
Q means it has a quota, rollover minutes,
being able to migrate
and password changing.
And you can have different
passwords and so on.
So I can double click on
a particular one and edit,
say, how much time our good
friend Warner Yuen has CPUs.
Like, let's say,
I'll give him just a really little
time or something like that,
who knows.
And that's not a limb changes password,
okay.
Anyway, so these are the kinds of things
that are available in Pooch Pro.
So that will be it for the demo for now.
I'd like to switch back to slides.
Thank you.
So just very quickly
for more information,
the reference library
that we can refer to,
basically we go to the
data search website.
You can find a whole
bunch of information.
The Pooch website,
you can find out the cluster recipe,
you can download a trial version,
and we have a tutorial on writing
parallel codes as well as a zoology of
parallel computing that is a description
of the various parallel computing types.
And this will all be
linked from the WWC URLs.
As well as the parallel NOC tutorial
with both code examples,
Fortran and C, a parallel adder tutorial,
both languages,
parallel Pascal's triangle,
and as well as related publications and
actually another video that's a little
bit longer than what we displayed here
of some of the work that we've done.
So I'd like to introduce Steve Forde and
thank you very much for your attention.
Steve Forde,
I'm CEO of GridIron Software.
I'm going to go over a real brief
overview of what we would call a next
generation parallel computing framework.
And we're going to do that really
from a very commercial perspective.
So probably a lot of the same
points that you've heard before,
I'll go through a little bit,
but we'll go from here.
So one of the key things that
ISVs that we work with are
looking for are obviously speed,
but a lot of times the resources
that are available to end users for
products that they ship are not vast.
So you get into a scenario where I need
to provide 100% performance or provide
linearity for every CPU that I add.
Because you might have a company like
a Pixar that has thousands of machines,
but you also might have a
small post-production facility
or something like that.
And you're sitting in the basement with
just one or two machines kicking around.
Is that actually going to
provide some value for them?
So the challenge for developers is to how
do you build in a parallel application
that provides this performance in a
very easy to use and seamless fashion?
Power, ISVs are really interested
in the money quotient.
This is what I would like to
call our million dollar slide.
But from this perspective,
this was a customer we
have in the print space,
and we actually did a comparison.
Between five G5Xers and a
Sun SparkFire 6800 12 CPU.
The interesting thing is
that this was the result,
and this is the cost that's generally
associated with machines like that.
And you can kind of get the idea
of why commercial software vendors
are very interested in seeing how
can they provide this functionality
from a commercial perspective
to everyone in their user base.
So methods of grid computing,
we've heard a lot about different things,
but from the grid's perspective,
there's three basic kinds.
There's the middleware perspective,
there's the opportunity
for message passing,
which Dean talked a lot about,
and some development tools that
try to make this whole black art of
parallelism a little bit easier on you,
the developer.
Script distribution,
there's obviously some pros and cons.
It's very good,
as we see with distributed
resource managers,
and if you're familiar
with things like Xgrid,
and that kind of stuff,
to go out and say, okay,
I'm going to use existing
resources with existing
applications and do things across.
But there generally needs to be some
sort of skill set for the end user
to understand how to do those things.
So it's very useful in areas of
scientific computing and in research.
But when you go into a
shrink-wrapped application and
you're trying to put that onto a CD,
it's a little tough for a lot
of the user base to grasp.
Message passing,
as Dean talked a lot about,
it's used quite extensively in
the scientific and research areas.
But the interesting thing that
we found as we went through our
engagement with several ISVs
from the commercial perspective,
obviously pros and cons
from that perspective,
but the biggest thing was that there
wasn't a lot of confidence with their
ability to ship that with a product.
So it was the learning curve associated
with actually putting that into
their products and their users to
understand how this thing works.
Development tools is where you're
probably going to see a lot more
emphasis on this down the road,
especially as chip design
and so on is going to move in
a few different directions.
But from our perspective,
we wanted to create an application
development environment that had
a very high level of abstraction.
So message passing is a
message passing interface.
But to turn around and say, OK,
you still have to write
a parallel application.
That provides you the messages,
but everything else
that you're associated.
So you not only have to worry about
how do you partition your algorithm,
but then how do you message?
And then how do you build all
the things such as discovery
and resource fault tolerance,
all those kind of things?
You've got some good tools, again,
like Dean's tool that can come along
and work with MPI and so on on the top.
But from the perspective of
what happens from within,
and that's something
that's very important.
GridIron XLR8 just as
a real brief overview,
it's a peer to peer based
distributed computing architecture.
And the APIs are built into source.
It's more wrapping the source.
I'm going to give a
quick example of that,
what we did for some MPEG encoding.
And then the work is dynamically
addressed across the network.
And that can be to a dedicated cluster
or to specific resources of desktops.
It doesn't really matter.
The key thing is that you can go
into that scenario very quickly.
And from within your application,
once it's been programmatically added,
provide a user with a
very engaging experience.
So the development tools have a
lot of the same pros and cons.
There's obviously requires code
modification and we as developers
don't like to modify code.
It's a very non-trivial thing,
especially when you get
into busting up algorithms.
Anybody who works in multi-threading
can go into that attestment.
But from our perspective,
we're kind of like a hybrid
between OpenMP and MPI.
We wanted the ability to provide
in the demo I'm gonna show you with
Adobe After Effects was to be able to
take advantage of just another machine,
another CPU within the same box for a
very serial threaded based application.
To grid or not to grid,
obviously that's the big question.
What kind of development work
or effort do you have to put
into the parallelization of your
code to return some results?
And is it worth it?
That's the big question.
And that's always why parallelism
has been the black art.
So from our perspective,
we wanted to really start to get
rid of that black art connotation,
provide an interesting
framework to do this.
A lot of times, I mean,
there's been a lot of talk also about
processor intensive applications.
But ironically, most of the applications
that we've worked with,
they have more data problems.
Data movement, reads and writes,
and those kind of things seem to be
a major bottleneck with a lot of the
applications that we've worked with.
So we wanted to come up with
various different means.
Again, saying to you, the developer,
really you focus on your algorithm.
You focus on the thing
that you know very well.
And we'll provide you a parallel
application that you can call into.
So which grid method to use?
Obviously, if you're doing embarrassingly
parallel or scriptable type things,
distributed resource managers
and scripted batch queue
systems are very good.
If your source code is not available,
again, that's probably the only
route that you have.
But then you also have the opportunity,
depending on the resources
at your disposal,
to go into a message pass or into
another type of framework such
as a development environment.
Quickly on grid enabling an application,
obviously 90/10, 80/20,
basically the same thing.
But when you're looking
at the 80/20 rule,
focus on that 20% of the code
that does 80% of the work.
The abstraction level again
is very important here because
what really we're trying to do
from a development perspective,
there's no such thing as
real automatic parallelism.
But from that perspective,
maybe there is ways to wrap
and provide hints instead
of breaking your algorithms.
In other words,
they can still run the same way that they
did before and you don't have to worry
about totally wrecking your application.
Application modification,
we've broken out our
architecture into three plug-ins,
defining tasks, task compilation,
and then result reassembly.
But again,
the goal is to provide the end user
with a really engaging experience
where they can basically think
that it was just done on their PC,
just on their Mac,
and they can use whatever
machines that are on the network.
MPEG encoding was a challenge that
we were given by a certain company
that does a lot of encoding.
And we wanted to see what kind of
results because this was high data.
So this is HD video.
We actually went in and did a
modification and we ran the test
on several XSERVs and we got
some very interesting results.
Basically,
we tried it out originally on 12.
We did actually go up to 40 but we
started seeing some degradation in
the curve of diminishing returns.
But we took an HD encode and brought that
down from two and a half hours to six
minutes and provided the seamless result.
The nice thing is I also didn't
have a lot of disk space.
I didn't need to have a lot of things.
It just went and dynamically moved
the data when it needed to and brought
the results back for the end user.
More importantly,
from a development perspective,
we only modified 100 lines.
Out of this 1100 source files,
we modified three,
basically about a thousand lines.
Of course, we published a white paper on
this so there's a lot of comments.
But we did it.
And that's available on our website
if you do want to check that out.
So another thing that we did is,
and what we're shipping with right
now is with Adobe After Effects.
And I wanted to kind of show that to you,
if I can switch over to demo two.
I wanted to show that to you very
quickly because this is what we
feel the end user has to experience.
And this is the challenge for us as
developers to bring into an engaging
experience for end customers.
The funny thing as well,
and I'm just gonna make a reference,
I think in the keynote on Monday,
there was a reference to, you know,
the challenge of bringing
chips into a smaller design.
Well,
a lot of folks are announcing now the
ability to go into a core multi-threading
or a multiple cell type chip.
So parallelism is gonna be absolutely
key if our software environments are
actually gonna take advantage of it.
So one of the things that
we did in this scenario is,
is that we're actually gonna
use these four XSERVs here.
But from an end user perspective,
they don't know anything.
I mean, this is a product that ships,
you can buy it at Fry's for 900 bucks.
And from that perspective,
if you go in there,
they don't know anything about DHCP.
They don't know anything about DNS.
They don't know anything other than how
you have to plug it in and I hit go.
So from that perspective,
that's literally all they have to do.
They go out,
it'll automatically dynamically
find all the other machines.
It'll pass the data that's
relevant for it to work on.
But the most important thing is,
is to provide the results right
in an application in a method
that they're very familiar with.
So if you look down here,
we're starting to bring in,
this is an HD 1080i clip by the way,
for those who are interested.
But the interesting thing is,
is that we're bringing the results right
into the RAM cache of After Effects.
So from the user's perspective,
this looks just like that always worked.
And that's very engaging.
The other side too though,
is that we have an interesting
side effect of using a
grid to do all the work.
And that is,
you can render and work at the same time.
That's never been doable before in a
single threaded application like this.
And I can do things and render and so on.
So I'll go back to, to the slides.
That's just a very quick demo.
And the power that provides
an end user is very engaging.
And we've been able to see that.
This has been shipping for a month.
And I think the stat was
17,000 users are using this,
cobbling together machines
in their basements,
using it in very large
infrastructure as well.
The NBA finals were
brought to you by this.
And from that perspective, if we can,
as developers bring,
engaging experiences for our customers,
our products will come at the
market in a very engaging way.
So summary, obviously speed.
Speed's great.
Is it worth the work?
That's really up to you.
You need to look at environments
that are going to help you get
to a more optimized and parallel
infrastructure without the headaches
or the worry of breaking your code.
There's going to be new hardware
technologies coming down the road,
specifically multi-cell
chips that are going to mean
parallelism is absolutely key.
So we've got to start
thinking about it now.
And significant linear
performance is really the thing
that customers want to buy.